Add docs for W3CLogger (#23417)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/w3c-logger/index.md

---
title: W3CLogger in .NET Core and ASP.NET Core
author: wtgodbe
description: Learn how to create server logs in the W3C standard format.

> monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-6.0'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-5.0'
```

Author: W3CLogger is not available in 5.x, only 6.x

---
title: W3C Logger in .NET Core and ASP.NET Core
author: wtgodbe
description: Learn how to create server logs in the W3C standard format.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-6.0'
ms.author: wigodbe

> ms.custom: mvc

Author: Don't know what this is for, I copied it from the http-logging doc

Author: Referring specifically to `ms.custom`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

ms.date: 09/29/2021
no-loc: [Home, Privacy, appsettings.json, "ASP.NET Core Identity", cookie, Cookie, Blazor, "Blazor Server", "Blazor WebAssembly", "Identity", "Let's Encrypt", Razor, SignalR]
uid: fundamentals/w3c-logger/index
---

> # W3C Logger in ASP.NET Core

Reviewer 2: Nit: Consistency of name (I think it should be W3CLogger everywhere, with that casing and no spaces)

> W3CLogger is a middleware that writes log files, in the W3C standard format (described [here](https://www.w3.org/TR/WD-logfile.html)), containing information about HTTP requests and HTTP responses. W3C logger provides logs of:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
W3CLogger is a middleware that writes log files in the [W3C standard format](https://www.w3.org/TR/WD-logfile.html). The logs contain information about HTTP requests and HTTP responses. W3CLogger provides logs of:
```

* HTTP request information
* Common properties
* Headers
* HTTP response information
* Metadata about the request/response pair (date/time started, time taken)

> W3C Logging is valuable in several scenarios to:

Reviewer 2: Is this about W3C Logging the concept, or W3CLogger (this middleware)? Sounds like the latter, in which case, I'd change this line.

* Record information about incoming requests and responses.
* Filter which parts of the request and response are logged.

> * Filtering which headers to log.

Reviewer 2: Minor nit: make these verb forms consistent (filtering -> filter)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Filter which headers to log.
```

> W3CLogger ***can reduce the performance of an app***. Consider the performance impact when selecting fields to log. Test the performance impact of the selected logging properties.

Reviewer 2: > Consider the performance impact when selecting fields to log.

Suggestion: make it more explicit that logging more stuff will cost you more perf (that seems obvious to us, but may not be to everyone).

By default, W3CLogger logs common properties such as path, status-code, date, time, and protocol. All information about a single request/response pair is written to the same line.

```
#Version: 1.0
#Start-Date: 2021-09-29 22:18:28
#Fields: date time c-ip s-computername s-ip s-port cs-method cs-uri-stem cs-uri-query sc-status time-taken cs-version cs-host cs(User-Agent) cs(Referer)
2021-09-29 22:18:28 ::1 DESKTOP-LH3TLTA ::1 5000 GET / - 200 59.9171 HTTP/1.1 localhost:5000 Mozilla/5.0+(Windows+NT+10.0;+WOW64)+AppleWebKit/537.36+(KHTML,+like+Gecko)+Chrome/93.0.4577.82+Safari/537.36 -
2021-09-29 22:18:28 ::1 DESKTOP-LH3TLTA ::1 5000 GET / - 200 0.1802 HTTP/1.1 localhost:5000 Mozilla/5.0+(Windows+NT+10.0;+WOW64)+AppleWebKit/537.36+(KHTML,+like+Gecko)+Chrome/93.0.4577.82+Safari/537.36 -
2021-09-29 22:18:30 ::1 DESKTOP-LH3TLTA ::1 5000 GET / - 200 0.0966 HTTP/1.1 localhost:5000 Mozilla/5.0+(Windows+NT+10.0;+WOW64)+AppleWebKit/537.36+(KHTML,+like+Gecko)+Chrome/93.0.4577.82+Safari/537.36 -
```

## W3C Logger options

To configure the W3CLogger middleware, call `AddW3CLogging` in `ConfigureServices`.

[!code-csharp[](samples/6.x/Startup.cs?name=configureservices)]

### `LoggingFields`

> `W3CLoggerOptions.LoggingFields` is an enum flag that configures specific parts of the request and response to log, as well as other information about the connection. `LoggingFields` defaults to include all possible fields except `UserName` and `Cookie`. 

Reviewer 2: "is an enum flag" makes it sound like a single flag. How about this instead?

```suggestion
`W3CLoggerOptions.LoggingFields` is a bit flag enumeration that configures specific parts of the request and response to log, as well as other information about the connection. `LoggingFields` defaults to include all possible fields except `UserName` and `Cookie`. 
```

> `W3CLoggerOptions.LoggingFields` is an enum flag that configures specific parts of the request and response to log, as well as other information about the connection. `LoggingFields` defaults to include all possible fields except `UserName` and `Cookie`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`W3CLoggerOptions.LoggingFields` is an enum flag that configures specific parts of the request and response to log,  and other information about the connection. `LoggingFields` defaults to include all possible fields except `UserName` and `Cookie`. 
```

[!code-csharp[](samples/6.x/Startup.cs?name=configureservices&highlight=6)]

> | Flag | Description | Value |

Reviewer 2: Should this table be here or should we just link to the API doc page for W3CLoggingFields when that's ready?

Author: I copied what we do in the HttpLogging doc - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/http-logging/?view=aspnetcore-6.0#loggingfields. @Rick-Anderson should both of these change to reference the API doc page after 6.0 ships?

Reviewer 3: Link to the API docs, we don't want to have to maintain both.

| ---- | ----------- | :---: |
| None | No logging. | 0x0 |
| `Date` | The date that the activity occurred. | 0x1 |

> | `Time` |  The date that the activity occurred. | 0x2 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `Time` |  The time that the activity occurred. | 0x2 |
```

> | `Time` |  The date that the activity occurred. | 0x2 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Time` |  The time that the activity occurred. | 0x2 |
```

| `ClientIpAddress` |  The IP address of the client that accessed the server. | 0x4 |
| `UserName` |  The name of the authenticated user that accessed the server. | 0x8 |
| `ServerName` |  The name of the server on which the log entry was generated. | 0x10 |
| `ServerIpAddress` |  The IP address of the server on which the log entry was generated. | 0x20 |
| `ServerPort` |  The port number the client is connected to. | 0x40 |
| `Method` |  Request <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpRequest.Method>. | 0x80 |
| `UriStem` |  Request Path, which includes both the <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpRequest.Path> and <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpRequest.PathBase>. | 0x100 |
| `UriQuery` |  Request <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpRequest.QueryString>. | 0x200 |
| `ProtocolStatus` |  Response <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpResponse.StatusCode>. | 0x400 |
| `TimeTaken` |  The duration of time, in milliseconds, that the action consumed. | 0x800 |
| `ProtocolVersion` |  Request <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.HttpRequest.Protocol>. | 0x1000 |

> | `Host` |  Request <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Headers.HeaderNames.Host>. | 0x2000 |

Author: @Rick-Anderson will this work? The `HeaderNames` stuff I'm referencing are all static strings: https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/3d7a624cc7bfbfeec1843efb8c00b4832e7c5675/src/Http/Headers/src/HeaderNames.cs#L148

Author: I guess not:

> Cross reference not found: 'Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Headers.HeaderNames.Host'.

Any better way to do this?

Reviewer 4: That's probably cause the API docs haven't been updated for 6.0 yet

Reviewer: > That's probably cause the API docs haven't been updated for 6.0 yet

Not all 6.0 have been updated. Code fence it for now. Feel free to open an issue and assign to me (with POST 6.0 label) to add `xref`.

Author: What's the formatting that you're suggesting?

Reviewer: > What's the formatting that you're suggesting?
code fenced as my suggestions below

```suggestion
| `Host` |  Request `Host` | 0x2000 |
```
or
```suggestion
| `Host` |  Request `Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Headers.HeaderNames.Host` | 0x2000 |
```
Or
```suggestion
| `Host` |  Request `Http.Headers.HeaderNames.Host` | 0x2000 |
```

Author: https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/23421

| `UserAgent` |  Request <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Headers.HeaderNames.UserAgent>. | 0x4000 |
| `Cookie` |  Request <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Headers.HeaderNames.Cookie>. | 0x8000 |
| `Referer` |  Request <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Http.Headers.HeaderNames.Referer>. | 0x10000 |
| `ConnectionInfoFields` | Flag for logging a collection of properties, about the HTTP Connection, including `ClientIpAddress`, `ServerIpAddress`, and `ServerPort`. | `ClientIpAddress | ServerIpAddress | ServerPort` |
| `RequestHeaders` | Flag for logging a collection of request headers, including `Host`, `Referer`, and `UserAgent`. | `Host | Referer | UserAgent` |
| `Request` | Flag for logging a collection of properties about the request, including `UriStem`, `UriQuery`, `ProtocolVersion`, `Method`, and `RequestHeaders`. | `UriStem | UriQuery | ProtocolVersion | Method | RequestHeaders` |
| `All` | Flag for logging all possible fields. | `Date | Time | ServerName | Method | UriStem | UriQuery | ProtocolStatus | TimeTaken | ProtocolVersion | Host | UserAgent | Referer | ConnectionInfoFields | UserName | Cookie` |

### `FileSizeLimit`

> Maximum log file size in bytes. Defaults to 10 MiB.

Reviewer 2: I'm not pushing back on this, just curious: why are the descriptions of the options here instead of just having a link to API docs? Do we intend to have both long term or is this a temporary thing?

Author: It's copied from the Http Logging doc again - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/fundamentals/http-logging/?view=aspnetcore-6.0#loggingfields. Same question as above @Rick-Anderson

Reviewer: It's best to not duplicate content. We make exceptions for some APIs. I'm fine with either approach on this. What is `MiB`? Is that an apple thing?

Author: MiB is 2^20 whereas MB is 10^6 (1,048,576 vs. 1,000,000)

Reviewer 3: Copy pasting the API docs here doesn't add much value, these fields only make sense to individually document if there will be expanded remarks or examples.

Author: @Rick-Anderson should I assign this to you similar to https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/23421 for once the API docs are up, or should I assign that to myself?

Reviewer: > @Rick-Anderson should I assign this to you similar to #23421 for once the API docs are up, or should I assign that to myself?

Assign to me

Author: https://github.com/dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs/issues/23422
